{{ for a lite, tldr; version see: https://github.com/BanzooIO/federated_policies_and_tos/blob/main/optional-privacy-policy-intro-lite.md }}

Hello privacy conscious *fellow* human (unless you are a bot, in which case, hello privacy conscious bot *from* a human). There is emphasis on "fellow" because I am {{your_admin_handle}}, your humble {{your_instance_name}} admin and I am very much human. I am not a big corporation, I am not a bot, I am a living, breathing, human and you being here means we share common human interests.

I see we share a common interest in privacy, and that is very good! But a privacy primer is warranted before you continue with your review of the privacy policy here at {{your_instance_name}}. "A privacy primer on a privacy policy? I've never seen that before, that's kind of sus". However there should be one on every privacy policy, but most policy writers want to hide behind a wall of legalese to obfuscate their liberal use of your information and provide you with the false sense of security that they are managing your data ethically (and cover their ass because they likely aren't). I want you to make an informed decision on how you manage your privacy, because that is the distinction here: your privacy is your responsibility and I want you to be hyper aware of this. I want you to be informed so that you engage with this platform in a way that ensures you are managing your privacy responsibly. Because it is YOUR responsibility no matter where you go.

You may have heard concerns about how federated platforms publish your data and yourself are concerned about the public, sometimes unalterable and persistent, aspects of what you post or how you engage. Inversely, you may have had a more technically minded friend hand wave that away with "everything you post on the internet is there forever". And this is true. There are hundreds of thousands of bots all amped up, ready to pounce on whatever you post and duplicate it, often against the policy of the service you use online. More troubling, there are just as many all wired up with grace from the providers you commonly use every day.

It would be a disservice to simply hand wave this aspect away. It is true that there are cases where it may become difficult to reverse what you have put out to the public. In open federated space there is a distinction between a potential externally archived copy and a federated, distributed and indexed copy. It is important to understand the mechanisms and conditions that may result in this so that you can, once again, be responsible for how you manage your privacy.

But first, how sure are you that you are not already part of a federated service?

Have you ever watched a video on one platform to see an ad for it on another and think "hm, that is strange, aren't these platforms competitors, they wouldn't share my information with a competitor would they?". They do. They all share a common interest in making sure you are tracked, observed, and profiled everywhere you go. Logged in, logged out, doesn't matter. Even small independant actors might find the tools prove too enticing and blindly share your information without fully understanding the implications themselves. They feed all of your activity into monolith services designed to track what you do, when you do it, what you watch, what your interest are, what you "like", when you hesitate on a scroll indicating your interest without even "liking" it, and most importantly, what you *really* don't like but can't help but give your attention to. Heck, with phone accelerometer data, location, and the sudden, feverish action of you scrolling mindlessly, they may even track what time you poop at work and how much company time you're spending on it (this part probably isn't happening, but I'm sure some suit somewhere has had the thought. Though your "smart" watch and favourite health app very well could be).

This breaks the walls of your online life and reaches its slimy tentacles deep into your physical life. Have you ever had that spooky ad that shows up on the product you were just discussing in private with a friend? They didn't listen to you (yet). Or maybe they did, but it is just as likely that the person you were talking to searched for it, or had recently seen it online and is what instigated the discussion. Because of your physical proximity to them (which is tracked in a variety of impressive ways), it puts its dirty feelers out to gauge your interest. They don't need to hear what you say. They know where you go, what your interests are, how you spend your time and your money, who you associate with and recursively their what/when/where/whos. This data is liberally shared to whoever has enough money to pay for it.

You are absolutely part of a federated service already. You just have no control, no say in, no way to opt in or out, or likely even any real awareness of it. You have no control of the direction that federated service is going. It is invisible to you and it is being weaponized against you. It is not designed to keep you thoughtfully engaged but instead mindlessly addicted and mindlessly consuming.

How is an open federated platform like {{your_instance_name}} on {{your_federated_platform}} different? An open federated platform is a collective of operators that help you and others distribute and share information. This may be in a small, exclusive group, or this may be in a global inclusive capacity {{(your_instance_name is exclusive/inclusive)}}. It sometimes can even be cross platform, with one federated platform having interoperability with another. There are many benefits to this model, from censorship resistance, to community safety, to privacy. We are just going to focus on the latter as that is what you are here for {{(For information on the other topics, review our mission, TOS, moderation policy, etc. linked here)}}.

There is an agreement across operators on how your public information is distributed and published. To balance all of the goals previously listed sometimes this comes with drawbacks in one area to facilitate another. It is often the case that this results in what you post publicly (or even sometimes privately) being copied to other operators. It is also a possibility that sometime in the future there is a disconnect from your local instance (ie. {{your_instance_name}}) and another operator either due to conflicting goals in community direction, or your local going offline. There is also the potential for bad actors to copy this data in a federated manner and not respect the ethos of the larger community. In these cases you will not be able to edit or remove those copies by editing your original (though you can reach out to those instances and request they do so, and depending on your jurisdiction, they may be legally obliged to do so). You should be hyper aware of this when you are deciding how you will engage on this platform. As previously highlighted, this goes for any service that is open to the public, but there is a distinction to the possible, unauthorized capture of your data and a federated distributed copy. It may show up in searches where unauthorized copies otherwise wouldn't for instance. It is automatic by design. This is where it is your responsibility to take full charge of your privacy.

It is my responsibility to make my best efforts to ensure that sensitive information that could identify or otherwise track you does not leave this local instance. This includes things such as your email and IP address. This information is not federated and my controls on maintaining this component of privacy is what the policy outlines.

The second thing to be hyper aware of is this technology is in very early, and very experimental development. You are agreeing to be a part of this very exciting and emerging technology with the understanding there is no guarantee it will be free from flaws. But another advantage to the model of open and free is there are many, many eyes on it. There are many people involved in ensuring its success and safety. There will be early and public disclosures on risks. Things may come up like finding there is a specific way an image can be shared that would result in your IP address being leaked if it is consumed in a certain way. That doesn't sound very good does it? But you maybe never even thought about it before I told you and had no concern with such issues that perpetually exist in embedded and hotlinked media on purported closed platforms. You can adapt your engagement on the platform to mitigate your risk, and have confidence that someone is working to fix that problem. I have disclosed risks I am aware of and the strategies I have employed to mitigate them in the policy.

There are responsible alternatives to completely open federated systems. If you are in any way uncomfortable with what I have explained about the distribution in openly federated I encourage you to use those platforms instead. This however comes with its own drawbacks. You are putting your entire faith in a potentially smaller operator and developer network. If you are unhappy about the direction that platform is going, or the platform disappears, so does your community and your voice in that community. With a federated platform you are free to leave a local and join another while retaining access to your community, and with the same user experience you had grown accustomed to and mastered.

After reviewing the privacy policy below you decide to join our community, I warmly welcome you with the confidence you are informed on how to be responsible for your privacy, and you have my assurance I am here to do my part in maintaining the private gateway to your travels in this space.

{{ add privacy policy here. Basic policy frameworks can be found @ https://github.com/BanzooIO/federated_policies_and_tos }}

{{ Licensed in the public domain. If attribution is desired, please link to the BanzooIO federation policy project }}
